Skip to main content
 
Google Workspace Admin Help
[                    ]
●
Sign in
 
Google Help

  • Help Center
  • Community
  • Google Workspace Admin
  • Privacy Policy
  • Terms of Service
  • Submit feedback

Send feedback on...
(*)
This help content & information
( )
General Help Center experience
Next

  • Help Center
  • Community
  • 

Google Workspace Admin

  • Gmail
  • Gmail limits and policies
  • Bulk email sending guidelines & tools
  • Email sender guidelines FAQ

Email sender guidelines FAQ

This FAQ provides additional, detailed information about our Email sender
guidelines (previously called Bulk sender guidelines), which describe Google's
requirements for sending email to personal Gmail accounts. Google updates this
page periodically, so check back regularly to get the latest information and
requirements for bulk email senders.

Important: Starting February 2024, Gmail will require the following for senders
who send 5,000 or more messages a day to Gmail accounts: Authenticate outgoing
email, avoid sending unwanted or unsolicited email, and make it easy for
recipients to unsubscribe. Get the detailed requirements for sending 5,000 or
more emails per day.

Expand all  |  Collapse all

Bulk senders

What is a bulk sender?

A bulk sender is any email sender that sends close to 5,000 or more messages to
personal Gmail accounts within a 24-hour period. Messages sent from the same
primary domain count toward the 5,000 limit.

Sending domains: When we calculate the 5,000-message limit, we count all
messages sent from the same primary domain. For example, every day you send
2,500 messages from solarmora.com and 2,500 messages from
promotions.solarmora.com to personal Gmail accounts. You’re considered a bulk
sender because all 5,000 messages were sent from the same primary domain:
solarmora.com. Learn about domain name basics.

Senders who meet the above criteria at least once are permanently considered
bulk senders.

Does bulk sender status expire? Can I change my sending practices to remove my
bulk sender status?

Bulk sender status doesn’t have an expiration date. Email senders that have
been classified as bulk senders are permanently classified as such. Changes in
email sending practices will not affect permanent bulk sender status once it’s
assigned.

How can bulk senders make sure they’re meeting the sender guidelines?

Bulk senders should use Postmaster Tools to check that their email practices
are following our Email sender guidelines. To learn more, visit our Email
sender requirements & Postmaster Tools FAQ.

Google Workspace accounts

Do the sender guidelines apply to messages sent to Google Workspace accounts?

The Email sender guidelines don’t apply to messages sent to Google Workspace
accounts. Sender requirements and Google enforcement apply only when sending
email to personal Gmail accounts.

Do the sender guidelines apply to messages sent from Google Workspace accounts?

All senders, including Google Workspace users, must meet the requirements in
our Email sender guidelines when sending messages to personal Gmail accounts.
The requirements don’t apply to Google Workspace inbound and intra-domain
messages.

Sender guidelines enforcement

What is the timeline for enforcement of sender guidelines?

Enforcement for bulk senders that don’t meet our Email sender guidelines will
be gradual and progressive.

In February 2024, bulk senders who don’t meet sender requirements will start
getting temporary errors (with error codes) on a small percentage of their
non-compliant email traffic. These temporary errors are meant to help senders
identify email traffic that doesn’t meet our guidelines so that senders can
resolve issues that result in non-compliance.

In April 2024, we’ll start rejecting a percentage of non-compliant email
traffic, and we’ll gradually increase the rejection rate. For example, if 75%
of a sender’s traffic meets our requirements, we’ll start rejecting a
percentage of the remaining 25% of traffic that isn’t compliant.

Bulk senders have until June 1, 2024 to implement one-click unsubscribe in all
commercial, promotional messages.

We’ll prioritize technical support for email delivery issues for bulk senders
that meet all the requirements described in our Email sender guidelines.

What happens if senders don’t meet the requirements in the sender guidelines?

To ensure messages are delivered as expected, bulk senders should comply with
our Email sender guidelines. If senders don’t meet these requirements, messages
might be rejected or delivered to recipients’ spam folders.

If messages are rejected because they don’t meet the sender guidelines, do you
send an error message or other alert?

Yes, when messages are rejected, we send a rejection code and a reason for the
rejection. You can also see this information in Postmaster Tools.

Spam rate

What time range or duration is used when calculating spam rate?

Spam rate is calculated daily. To help ensure messages are delivered as
expected, senders should keep their spam rate below 0.1% and should prevent
spam rates from ever reaching 0.3% or higher, as described in our Email sender
guidelines.

What happens when sender spam rate exceeds the maximum spam rate allowed by the
guidelines?

To comply with the sender guidelines, keep your spam rate below 0.1% and
prevent spam rates from ever reaching 0.3% or higher.

Spam rate impact is graduated, and spam rates of 0.3% or higher have an even
greater negative impact on email inbox delivery. Even today, spam rates greater
than 0.1% have a negative impact on email inbox delivery for bulk senders. When
we begin enforcing sender guidelines, messages from bulk senders with a spam
rate higher than 0.3% can be sent to spam or they can be rejected.

You can monitor your spam rate with Postmaster Tools.

Starting February 2024, senders with a user-reported spam rate greater than
0.3% will be ineligible for mitigation. Messages from senders that don’t meet
sender guidelines aren’t automatically rejected as part of enforcement.

Unsubscribe links

Do all messages require one-click unsubscribe?

No. One-click unsubscribe is required only for commercial, promotional
messages. Transactional messages are excluded from this requirement. Some
examples of transactional messages are password reset messages, reservation
confirmations, and form submission confirmations.

Senders that already include an unsubscribe link in their messages have until
June 1, 2024 to implement one-click unsubscribe in all commercial, promotional
messages.

If the list header is missing, is the message body checked for a one-click
unsubscribe link?

No. One-click unsubscribe should be implemented according to RFC 8058.
Including a mailto link in the body of your messages doesn’t meet our one-click
unsubscribe requirement.

If unsubscribe links are temporarily unavailable due to maintenance or other
reasons, are messages flagged as spam?

If your unsubscribe link isn’t working for an extended period of time, your
messages won’t meet our one-click unsubscribe requirement. These messages won’t
be marked as spam, but senders aren’t eligible for mitigation for email
delivery issues.

Can a one-click unsubscribe link to a landing or preferences page?

We recommend senders follow the specifications for one-click unsubscribe that
are defined in RFC 8058. Email admins should use this specification as the
reference for implementing one-click unsubscribe. One-click unsubscribe links
that link to a landing or other type of web page don’t comply with RFC 8058.

Email authentication

What is the DMARC alignment requirement for bulk senders?

For messages sent directly to personal Gmail accounts, the organizational
domain in the sender From: header must be aligned with either the SPF
organizational domain or the DKIM organizational domain. Although we require
bulk senders to set up both SPF and DKIM authentication, only one of these
needs to be aligned to meet the sender alignment requirements.

DMARC alignment isn’t required for forwarded or mailing list messages
(sometimes referred to as indirect messages), however we require that these
types of messages have ARC headers. Learn more about ARC authentication and
headers.

To ensure reliable authentication, we recommend all senders fully align DMARC
to both SPF and DKIM. It’s likely that DMARC alignment with both SPF and DKIM
will eventually be a sender requirement. Learn more about DMARC alignment.

If messages fail DMARC authentication, can they be delivered using IP allow
lists or spam bypass lists? Or will these messages be quarantined?

If messages fail DMARC because of authentication or alignment issues, the
enforcement defined in the sending domain’s DMARC policy generally applies. If
the sending domain doesn’t have a DMARC policy, the messages might be rejected
or sent to spam. Failing DMARC authentication is one of several factors that
determine whether messages are rejected, sent to spam, or delivered as
expected. DMARC authentication is an important determining factor, and so these
messages are typically handled based on the enforcement setting in the sending
domain’s DMARC policy.

Learn more about DMARC policies and enforcement options.

Support & escalation

Can bulk senders get technical support for email delivery issues?

Bulk senders that meet all requirements described in our Email sender
guidelinescan submit an escalation for email delivery issues. Before contacting
tech support, make sure you’re following all sender guidelines. Starting in
February 2024, we won’t provide mitigation for email delivery issues to senders
that don’t meet the guidelines. For details about mitigation requests, visit
the Sender contact form.

Related topics

Email sender guidelines

Was this helpful?

How can we improve it?
YesNo
[                    ]
Submit
Need more help?

Try these next steps:

Post to the help community Get answers from community members
Contact us Tell us more and we’ll help you get there
true

Bulk email sending guidelines & tools

  • 1 of 4
    Email sender guidelines
  • 2 of 4
    Email sender guidelines FAQ
  • 3 of 4
    Feedback Loop
  • 4 of 4
    Postmaster Tools

[exxMjxadqE]
Start your free 14-day trial today

Professional email, online storage, shared calendars, video meetings and more.
Start your free Google Workspace trial today.

  • ©2024 Google
  • Privacy Policy
  • Terms of Service

