Skip to main content
 
Gmail Help
[                    ]
 
Sign in
 
Google Help

  • Help Center
  • Community
  • Gmail
  • Privacy Policy
  • Terms of Service
  • Submit feedback

Send feedback on...
(*)
This help content & information
( )
General Help Center experience
Next

  • Help Center
  • Community
  • New to integrated Gmail

Gmail

  • Send bulk emails
  • Prevent mail to Gmail users from being blocked or sent to spam

Prevent mail to Gmail users from being blocked or sent to spam

The guidelines in this article will help you successfully send and deliver
email to people who have personal Gmail accounts. This article was previously
called Bulk sender guidelines.

Important: To verify messages sent to personal Gmail accounts are
authenticated, Google performs random checks on these messages. To help ensure
messages sent to personal Gmail accounts are delivered as expected, you should
set up either SPF or DKIM for your domain. Learn more.

Following the recommendations in this article helps ensure that your messages
are successfully delivered to Gmail accounts. These recommendations help
prevent Gmail from limiting sending rates, blocking messages, and marking
messages as spam.

These guidelines are for anyone who sends email to Google Gmail accounts. A
Gmail account can be any one of these account types:

  • A personal Gmail account that ends in @gmail.com or googlemail.com
  • A work or school Gmail account from Google Workspace. Email addresses for
    Google Workspace work or school accounts don’t include @gmail.com.

Google Workspace: If you use a Google Workspace account to send large volumes
of email, review the Spam and abuse policy in Gmail. The policy is part of the
Google Workspace Acceptable Use Policy.

In this article

  • Issues not solved in this article
  • Follow best practices for sending to Gmail accounts
  • Set up email authentication for your domain (required)
  • Follow best practices for email subscriptions
  • Monitor affiliate marketers
  • Format messages for successful delivery
  • Increase sending volume slowly
  • Follow recommended email server practices
  • Use Postmaster Tools to monitor outgoing email
  • Troubleshoot email delivery issues

Issues not solved in this article

This article doesn't have solutions for these issues:

  • Bounced messages to one user: If you’re getting bounced messages when
    sending to a specific Gmail account, learn how to fix bounced emails.
  • Message rejected by Google Groups: If your message can't be delivered to a
    work or school group, visit Messages from a bulk sender bounce for tips to
    help fix this issue.
  • Allowlisting senders: Gmail doesn't accept allowlist requests from
    third-party email senders. We can't guarantee messages sent by third-party
    email providers will pass Gmail’s spam filters. If you use a third-party
    provider to send email for your domain:
      □ Make sure the provider follows the guidelines in this article. Large
        email providers such as Google, AOL, and Yahoo, typically follow these
        guidelines.
      □ Make sure the SPF record for your domain includes all email senders for
        your domain. If third-party senders aren't included in your SPF record,
        messages sent from these providers are more likely to be marked as
        spam. Learn how to set up your SPF record to authorize all email
        senders for your domain.

Follow best practices for sending to Gmail accounts

To reduce the chances that messages from your domain are sent to spam or
blocked by Gmail, follow the general best practices in this section.

  • Set up valid reverse DNS records of your IP addresses that point to your
    domain.
  • Set up SPF and DKIM so they’re aligned.
  • Use the same domain for sending email and for hosting your public website.
    Set up SPF and DKIM for this domain.
  • Ideally, send all messages from the same IP address. If you must send from
    multiple IP addresses, use a different IP address for each type of message.
    For example, use one IP address for sending account notifications and a
    different IP address for sending promotional messages.
  • Don't mix different types of content in the same message. For example,
    don't include content about promotions in sales receipt messages.
  • Messages of the same category should have the same From email address. For
    example, messages from a domain called solarmora.com might have From
    addresses like this:
      □ Sales receipt messages: sales@solarmora.com
      □ Promotional messages: deals@solarmora.com
      □ Account notification messages: alert@solarmora.com
  • Check regularly that your domain isn’t listed as unsafe with Google Safe
    Browsing. To check your domain status, enter your domain in the Safe
    Browsing site status page. Check any other domains that are linked to
    yours.
  • Don’t send test phishing messages or test campaigns from your domain. Your
    domain’s reputation might be negatively affected, and your domain could be
    added to internet blocklists.
  • Don’t impersonate other domains or senders without permission. This
    practice is called spoofing, and Gmail may mark these messages as spam.
  • Messages sent from an address in the recipient’s Contacts list are less
    likely to be marked as spam.

Occasionally, legitimate messages might be marked as spam. Recipients can mark
valid messages as not spam, so future messages from the sender should be
delivered to their inbox.

Recommendations for email providers

Google and Gmail don’t accept allowlist requests from email providers. We can't
guarantee messages sent by email providers will pass Gmail’s spam filters.

If you use a third-party email provider to send email for your domain:

  • Verify that the provider follows the guidelines in this article. Large
    providers, such as Google, AOL, and Yahoo, typically follow these
    guidelines.
  • Make sure the SPF record for your domain includes references to all email
    senders for your domain. If third-party senders aren't included in your SPF
    record, messages sent from these providers are more likely to be marked as
    spam. Learn how to set up your SPF record to include all email senders for
    your domain.

If you use a domain provider but you manage your own email, we recommend you:

  • Review and follow the best practices in this article for sending email to
    Gmail accounts.
  • Use Postmaster Tools to monitor information about messages sent from your
    domain to Gmail accounts.

If you’re a third-party email provider: When clients use your service to send
email, you’re responsible for their sending practices. We recommend taking
these steps to help manage your clients’ sending activity:

  • Offer an email address for reporting email abuse, for example:
    abuse@mail-provider.com.
  • Make sure your contact information in your WHOIS record and on abuse.net is
    current.
  • Immediately remove any client who uses your service to send spam.

Set up email authentication for your domain (required)

We recommend you always set up email authentication for your domain.
Authenticated messages:

  • Help protect recipients from malicious messages, such as spoofing and
    phishing messages.
  • Are less likely to be rejected or marked as spam by Gmail.

Set up email authentication for each of your sending domains at your domain
provider. Follow the domain provider's instructions for setting up
authentication. To get detailed information about authentication and how it
protects your organization's email, visit Prevent spam, spoofing & phishing
with Gmail authentication.

Email authentication requirements for sending to Gmail accounts

Google performs random checks on messages sent to personal Gmail accounts to
verify messages are authenticated. To help ensure messages you send to Gmail
accounts are delivered as expected, you should set up either SPF or DKIM for
your domain. Messages without at least one of these authentication methods are
rejected with a 5.7.26 error, or are marked as spam. We recommend you always
set up SPF and DKIM to protect your organization’s email, and to support future
authentication requirements.

If you use an email service provider, verify that they authenticate your
organization's email with SPF or DKIM.

If you regularly forward email, be sure to follow Best practices for forwarding
email to Gmail to help ensure your messages are delivered as expected.

SPF

SPF prevents spammers from sending unauthorized messages that appear to be from
your domain. Set up SPF by publishing an SPF record at your domain. The SPF
record for your domain should reference all email senders for your domain. If
third-party senders aren't included in your SPF record, messages from these
senders are more likely to be marked as spam. Learn how to set up your SPF
record to authorize all email senders for your domain.

DKIM

Receiving servers use DKIM to verify that the domain owner actually sent the
message. Turn on DKIM for the domain that sends your email.

Important: Sending to personal Gmail accounts requires a DKIM key of 1024 bits
or longer.

ARC

ARC checks the previous authentication status of forwarded messages. If a
forwarded message fails SPF or DKIM authentication, Gmail might use ARC to
recover the original, passing authentication.

If a forwarded message passes SPF or DKIM authentication, but ARC shows it
previously failed authentication, Gmail might treat the message as
unauthenticated.

For more information, visit ARC email authentication.

DMARC

DMARC lets you tell receiving servers what to do with messages from your domain
that don’t pass SPF or DKIM. Set up DMARC by publishing a DMARC record for your
domain. To pass DMARC authentication, messages must be authenticated by SPF or
DKIM. The authenticating domain must be the same domain that's in the message
From: header.

When you set up DMARC, you can then optionally set up BIMI to add your brand
logo to messages sent from your domain.

Follow best practices for email subscriptions

Send email to engaged users only

Only send email to people who want to get messages from you. They’re less
likely to report messages from your domain as spam.

If messages from your domain are often reported as spam, future messages are
more likely to be marked as spam. Over time, spam reports can lower your
domain’s reputation. Learn about your domain’s reputation with Postmaster Tools
.

Make it easy to subscribe

To help ensure your recipients are engaged:

  • Make sure recipients opt in to get messages from you.
  • Confirm each recipient's email address before subscribing them.
  • Periodically send messages to confirm that recipients want to stay
    subscribed.
  • Consider unsubscribing recipients who don’t open or read your messages.

Make it easy to unsubscribe

Always give your recipients a way to unsubscribe from your messages. Make
unsubscribing easy. Letting people opt out of your messages can improve open
rates, click-through rates, and sending efficiency.

Here are some recommended unsubscribe methods:

  • Include a prominent link in the message that takes recipients to a page for
    unsubscribing.
  • Let recipients review the individual mailing lists they’re subscribed to.
    Let them unsubscribe from lists individually, or all lists at once.
  • Automatically unsubscribe recipients who have multiple bounced messages.

Advanced: Set up one-click unsubscribe

If you’re familiar with managing email and setting up custom message headers,
you can set up one-click unsubscribe for Gmail messages. Include one or both of
these headers in your outgoing messages:

List-Unsubscribe-Post: List-Unsubscribe=One-Click
List-Unsubscribe: <https://solarmora.com/unsubscribe/example>

If you include both headers, Gmail uses the one listed first.

When a recipient unsubscribes using one-click, you receive this POST request:

"POST /unsubscribe/example HTTP/1.1
Host: solarmora.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 26
List-Unsubscribe=One-Click"

Learn more about List-Unsubscribe headers in RFC 2369 and RFC 8058.

Avoid these practices

  • Don't mark internal messages as spam. This can negatively affect your
    domain's reputation, and future messages might be marked as spam.
  • Don’t purchase email addresses from other companies.
  • Don’t send messages to people who didn't sign up to get messages from you.
    These recipients might mark your messages as spam, and future messages to
    these recipients will be marked as spam.
  • We don’t recommend opt-in forms that are checked by default and that
    automatically subscribe users. Some countries and regions restrict
    automatic opt-in. Before opting-in users automatically, check the laws in
    your area.

Monitor affiliate marketers

Affiliate marketing programs offer rewards to companies or individuals that
send visitors to your website. However, spammers can take advantage of these
programs. If your brand is associated with marketing spam, other messages sent
by you might be marked as spam.

We recommend you regularly monitor affiliates, and remove any affiliates that
send spam.

Format messages for successful delivery

These message formatting guidelines increase the likelihood that Gmail delivers
your messages to the inbox, not to the spam folder:

  • Format messages according to the Internet Format Standard (RFC 5322).
  • If your messages are in HTML, format them according to HTML standards.
  • Don’t use HTML and CSS to hide content in your messages. Hiding content
    might cause messages to be marked as spam.
  • Message From: headers should include only one email address, for example:
    From: notifications@solarmora.com
  • Make sure every message includes a valid Message-ID (RFC 5322).
  • Make sure single-instance message headers are included only once in a
    message. Examples of single-instance headers include From, To, Subject, and
    Date (RFC 5322).
  • Avoid excessively large message headers.
  • Web links in the message body should be visible and easy to understand.
    Recipients should know what to expect when they click a link.
  • Sender information should be clear and visible.
  • Message subjects should be accurate and not misleading.
  • Format international domains according to the Highly Restrictive guidelines
    in section 5.2 of Unicode Technical Standard #39:
      □ Authenticating domain
      □ Envelope from domain
      □ Payload domain
      □ Reply-to domain
      □ Sender domain

Increase sending volume slowly

When increasing sending volume, keep in mind:

  • Increasing the sending volume too quickly can result in delivery problems.
    As you gradually increase your sending mail volume, use Postmaster Tools to
    monitor mail performance.
  • For work and school accounts, sending limits apply even when recipients are
    in different Google Workspace domains. For example, you might send email to
    users with email addresses that have the domains your-company.net and
    solarmora.com. Although the domains are different, if both domains have
    google.com as their MX record, messages sent to these domains count toward
    your limit.

  • If you use Google Workspace or Gmail for sending: When you reach the
    sending limit, Google Workspace limits the message sending rate for that IP
    address.

If you send large amounts of email, we recommend you:

  • Send email at a consistent rate. Avoid sending email in bursts.
  • Start with a low sending volume to engaged users, and slowly increase the
    volume over time.
  • As you increase the sending volume, regularly monitor server responses, the
    spam rate, and the sending domain's reputation. Regular monitoring will
    allow you to quickly adapt if your sending is rate limited, if the spam
    rate is increased, or when the sending domain's reputation drops.
  • Avoid introducing sudden volume spikes if you do not have a history of
    sending large volumes. For example, immediately doubling previously sent
    volumes suddenly could result in rate limiting or reputation drops.
  • If you change the format of your bulk emails/newsletters, ramp up the
    traffic segment with the new format gradually.
  • When making significant changes to sending infrastructure or email/header
    structure, ramp up the modified segment of traffic separately.
  • If messages start bouncing or being deferred, reduce the sending volume
    until the SMTP error rate decreases. Then ramp up slowly again.
      □ If deferrals and rejections continue even at low volume, review the
        individual messages to identify problems. For example, you can try
        sending a blank test message and see if it experiences issues.
  • Stay within the IP limits for sending:
      □ Be aware of email sending limits when sending from domains that have a
        Google.com MX host.
      □ Limit sending email from a single IP address based on the MX record
        domain, not the domain in the recipient email address.
      □ Monitor responses so you can change sending rates as needed to stay
        within these limits.

These factors affect how quickly you can increase sending volume:

  • The amount of email sent: The more email that you send, the more slowly you
    should increase sending volume.
  • The frequency of sent email: You can increase the sending volume more
    quickly when you send daily instead of weekly.
  • Recipient feedback about your messages: Make sure you send only to people
    who subscribe to your emails, and give recipients an option to unsubscribe.

In the event of a recent spike in email activity, adhering to best practices
outlined above will likely resolve any deliverability issues automatically
during subsequent sends.

Follow recommended email server practices

Follow these best practices for managing email servers that send to Gmail
accounts.

Verify the sending server PTR record

Important: The sending IP address must match the IP address of the hostname
specified in the Pointer (PTR) record. PTR records are also called Reverse DNS
records.

Your sending IP address must have a PTR record. PTR records verify that the
sending hostname is associated with the sending IP address. Every IP address
must map to a hostname in the PTR record. The hostname specified in the PTR
record must have a forward DNS that refers to the sending IP address.

Check for a PTR record with the intoDNS tool.

Monitor the reputation of shared IP addresses

A shared IP address (shared IP) is an IP address used by more than one email
sender. The activity of any senders who uses a shared IP address affects the
reputation of all senders for that shared IP.

If you use a shared IP for sending email, other senders’ negative reputation
will negatively affect your reputation. A negative reputation can impact your
delivery rate.

If you use a shared IP for sending email:

  • Make sure the shared IP address isn’t on any internet blocklist. Messages
    sent from IP addresses on a blocklist are more likely to be marked as spam.
  • If you use an email service provider for your shared IP, use Postmaster
    Tools to monitor the reputation of the shared IP address.

Use Postmaster Tools to monitor outgoing email

Use Postmaster Tools to get information about the email you send to Gmail
users, for example:

  • When recipients mark your messages as spam
  • Why your messages might not be delivered
  • If your messages are authenticated
  • Your domain or IP reputation and its impact on message delivery rates

Spam rate

Senders should regularly monitor their domain's spam rate in Postmaster Tools.
Senders should aim to keep their spam rate below 0.10%; a spam rate of 0.30% or
higher should be avoided, especially for any sustained period of time.

Maintaining a low spam rate makes senders more resilient to occasional spikes
in user feedback. Similarly, maintaining a high spam rate will lead to
increased spam classification. It can take time for improvements in spam rate
to reflect positively on spam classification.

Open rate

Google does not explicitly track open rates, and cannot verify the accuracy of
those reported by third parties. Low open rates may not be an accurate
indicator of deliverability or spam classification issues.

Troubleshoot email delivery issues

If you use an email service provider

If you’re having delivery issues with email sent by a service provider, verify
that they use the recommended practices in this article.

Use MX Toolbox to review domain settings

Use the Google Admin Toolbox to check and fix settings for your domain.

Fix the source of rejected email

If your messages are rejected, you might get an error message. Learn more about
the error so you can fix the problem. Common error messages are:

  • 421, "4.7.0": Messages are rejected because the sending server’s IP address
    is not on the allowed list for the recipient’s domain.
  • 550, "5.7.1": Messages are rejected because the sending server’s IP address
    is on an IP suspended list. You might get this error if you’re sending mail
    using a shared IP with a poor reputation.

Learn more about email and SMTP error messages:

  • SMTP error reference
  • Fix bounced or rejected emails

Fix IPv6 authorization errors

An IPv6 authorization error could mean that the PTR record for the sending
server isn’t using IPv6. If you use an email service provider, confirm they’re
using an IPv6 PTR record.

Here's an example of an IPv6 authorization error:
550-5.7.1: Message does not meet IPv6 sending guidelines regarding PTR records
and authentication.

Use the troubleshooting tool

If you’re still having mail delivery problems after following the guidelines in
this article, try Troubleshooting for senders with email delivery issues.

Need more help?

Try these next steps:

Post to the help community Get answers from community members
true

Send bulk emails

  • 1 of 3
    Prevent mail to Gmail users from being blocked or sent to spam
  • 2 of 3
    Feedback Loop
  • 3 of 3
    Postmaster Tools

  • ©2023 Google
  • Privacy Policy
  • Terms of Service
  • Program Policies

